POWERSHELL(1)                     User Manuals                    POWERSHELL(1)


NAME
    powershell - commandline shell and C# REPL. 

SYNOPSIS
    powershell[.exe][.exe] [-PSConsoleFile <file> | -Version <version>]
    [-NoLogo] [-NoExit] [-Sta] [-Mta] [-NoProfile] [-NonInteractive]
    [-InputFormat {Text | XML}] [-OutputFormat {Text | XML}] 
    [-WindowStyle <style>] [-EncodedCommand <Base64EncodedCommand>] 
    [-File <filePath> <args>] [-ExecutionPolicy <ExecutionPolicy>]
    [-Command { - | <script-block> [-args <arg-array>]
                  | <string> [<CommandParameters>] } ]

DESCRIPTION
     powershell commandline shell and C# REPL.

OPTIONS
    
    -PSConsoleFile
	Loads the specified Windows PowerShell console file. To create a console file, use Export-Console in Windows PowerShell.

    -Version
         Starts the specified version of Windows PowerShell. Enter a version number with the parameter, such as "-version 2.0".
	 
    -NoLogo
	Hides the copyright banner at startup.

    -NoExit
        Does not exit after running startup commands.

    -Sta
	Starts the shell using a single-threaded apartment. single-threaded apartment (STA) is the default.

    -Mta
	Start the shell using a multithreaded apartment.

    -NoProfile
        Does not load the Windows PowerShell profile.

    -NonInteractive
        Does not present an interactive prompt to the user.

    -InputFormat
        Describes the format of data sent to Windows PowerShell. Valid values are "Text" (text strings) or "XML" (serialized CLIXML format).

    -OutputFormat
        Determines how output from Windows PowerShell is formatted. Valid values are "Text" (text strings) or "XML" (serialized CLIXML format).

    -WindowStyle
        Sets the window style to Normal, Minimized, Maximized or Hidden.

    -EncodedCommand
        Accepts a base-64-encoded string version of a command. Use this parameter to submit commands to Windows PowerShell that require complex quotation marks or curly braces.
    
    -File
	Runs the specified script in the local scope ("dot-sourced"), so that the functions and variables that the script creates are available in the current session. Enter the script file path and any parameters. File must be the last parameter in the command, because all characters typed after the File parameter name are interpreted as the script file path followed by the script parameters.

    -ExecutionPolicy
        Sets the default execution policy for the current session and saves it in the $env:PSExecutionPolicyPreference environment variable. This parameter does not change the Windows PowerShell execution policy that is set in the registry.

    -Command
	Executes the specified commands (and any parameters) as though they were typed at the Windows PowerShell command prompt, and then exits, unless NoExit is specified. The value of Command can be "-", a string or a script block. If the value of Command is "-", the command text is read from standard input. If the value of Command is a script block, the script block must be enclosed in braces ({}). You can specify a script block only when running PowerShell.exe in Windows PowerShell. The results of the script block are returned to the parent shell as deserialized XML objects, not live objects. If the value of Command is a string, Command must be the last parameter in the command , because any characters typed after the command are interpreted as the command arguments.    To write a string that runs a Windows PowerShell command, use the format: "& {<command>}" where the quotation marks indicate a string and the invoke operator (&) causes the command to be executed.

    -Help, -?, /?
        Shows this message. If you are typing a PowerShell.exe command in Windows PowerShell, prepend the command parameters with a hyphen (-), not a forward slash (/). You can use either a hyphen or forward slash in Cmd.exe.

FILES
     /home/usr/.config/powershell.Microsoft.PowerShell_profile.ps1
          User configuration file. 
     ~/.powershell
          runs powershell

ENVIRONMENT
     $profile
          Displays location for user configuration file. 

DIAGNOSTICS
	See GitHub for debugging information. 
BUGS
	Please report all bugs to GitHub. 

AUTHOR
	Microsoft

SEE ALSO


Linux                Last change: MARCH 1995                    2