docs/building/linux.md, before:

# Build PowerShell on Linux

This guide will walk you through building PowerShell on Linux.
We'll start by showing how to set up your environment from scratch.

## Environment

These instructions are written assuming Ubuntu 24.04 LTS (the CI uses ubuntu-latest).
The build module works on a best-effort basis for other distributions.

### Git Setup

Using Git requires it to be set up correctly;
refer to the [Working with the PowerShell Repository](../git/README.md),
[Readme](../../README.md), and [Contributing Guidelines](../../.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).

**This guide assumes that you have recursively cloned the PowerShell repository and `cd`ed into it.**

### Toolchain Setup

We use the [.NET Command-Line Interface][dotnet-cli] (`dotnet`) to build the managed components.

Installing the toolchain is as easy as running `Start-PSBootstrap` in PowerShell.
Of course, this requires a self-hosted copy of PowerShell on Linux.

Fortunately, this is as easy as [downloading and installing the package](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/install-other-linux#binary-archives).
The `./tools/install-powershell.sh` script will also install the PowerShell package.

In Bash:

```sh
./tools/install-powershell.sh

pwsh
```

You should now be in a PowerShell console host that is installed.
Just import our module, bootstrap the dependencies, and build!

In PowerShell:

```powershell
Import-Module ./build.psm1
Start-PSBootstrap -Scenario Both
```

The `Start-PSBootstrap` function does the following:

- Installs build dependencies and packaging tools via `apt-get` (or equivalent package manager)
- Downloads and installs the .NET SDK (currently version 10.0.100-rc.1) to `~/.dotnet`

If you want to use `dotnet` outside of `Start-PSBuild`, add `~/.dotnet` to your `PATH` environment variable.

[dotnet-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/

## Build using our module

We maintain a [PowerShell module](../../build.psm1) with the function `Start-PSBuild` to build PowerShell.
Since this is PowerShell code, it requires self-hosting.
If you have followed the toolchain setup section above, you should have PowerShell Core installed.

```powershell
Import-Module ./build.psm1
Start-PSBuild -UseNuGetOrg
```

Congratulations! If everything went right, PowerShell is now built.
The `Start-PSBuild` script will output the location of the executable:

`./src/powershell-unix/bin/Debug/net10.0/linux-x64/publish/pwsh`.

You should now be running the PowerShell Core that you just built, if you run the above executable.
You can run our cross-platform Pester tests with `Start-PSPester -UseNuGetOrg`, and our xUnit tests with `Start-PSxUnit`.

Commit message:

Explain the parameter `-UseNuGetOrg` in build documentation (#26507)

docs/building/linux.md, after:

# Build PowerShell on Linux

This guide will walk you through building PowerShell on Linux.
We'll start by showing how to set up your environment from scratch.

## Environment

These instructions are written assuming Ubuntu 24.04 LTS (the CI uses ubuntu-latest).
The build module works on a best-effort basis for other distributions.

### Git Setup

Using Git requires it to be set up correctly;
refer to the [Working with the PowerShell Repository](../git/README.md),
[Readme](../../README.md), and [Contributing Guidelines](../../.github/CONTRIBUTING.md).

**This guide assumes that you have recursively cloned the PowerShell repository and `cd`ed into it.**

### Toolchain Setup

We use the [.NET Command-Line Interface][dotnet-cli] (`dotnet`) to build the managed components.

Installing the toolchain is as easy as running `Start-PSBootstrap` in PowerShell.
Of course, this requires a self-hosted copy of PowerShell on Linux.

Fortunately, this is as easy as [downloading and installing the package](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/powershell/scripting/install/install-other-linux#binary-archives).
The `./tools/install-powershell.sh` script will also install the PowerShell package.

In Bash:

```sh
./tools/install-powershell.sh

pwsh
```

You should now be in a PowerShell console host that is installed.
Just import our module, bootstrap the dependencies, and build!

In PowerShell:

```powershell
Import-Module ./build.psm1
Start-PSBootstrap -Scenario Both
```

The `Start-PSBootstrap` function does the following:

- Installs build dependencies and packaging tools via `apt-get` (or equivalent package manager)
- Downloads and installs the .NET SDK (currently version 10.0.100-rc.1) to `~/.dotnet`

If you want to use `dotnet` outside of `Start-PSBuild`, add `~/.dotnet` to your `PATH` environment variable.

[dotnet-cli]: https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/

## Build using our module

We maintain a [PowerShell module](../../build.psm1) with the function `Start-PSBuild` to build PowerShell.
Since this is PowerShell code, it requires self-hosting.
If you have followed the toolchain setup section above, you should have PowerShell Core installed.

```powershell
Import-Module ./build.psm1
Start-PSBuild -UseNuGetOrg
```

> The PowerShell project by default references packages from the private Azure Artifacts feed, which requires authentication. The `-UseNuGetOrg` flag reconfigures the build to use the public NuGet.org feed instead.

Congratulations! If everything went right, PowerShell is now built.
The `Start-PSBuild` script will output the location of the executable:

`./src/powershell-unix/bin/Debug/net10.0/linux-x64/publish/pwsh`.

You should now be running the PowerShell Core that you just built, if you run the above executable.
You can run our cross-platform Pester tests with `Start-PSPester -UseNuGetOrg`, and our xUnit tests with `Start-PSxUnit`.
